boundaries for me was always something
that was scary it was something that
like I was intruding on somebody telling
somebody else what to do and I was like
controlling somebody that's what
boundaries were subconsciously in my
head and I realized at that moment No No
Boundaries
are are are an act of love and and they
are an act of taking care of yourself
and they're not telling other people
what to do and fighting requires Great
boundaries you have to have great
boundaries to have good productive
fights and so the rules that I have with
boundary are easy there's two of them
one of them is as soon as you draw the
boundary no matter what the response is
it needs to make you feel more love for
the other person so boundaries aren't
like a defensive no it's going to open
my heart it's going to allow me to feel
more
free it's going to it's going to
actually acknowledge my
freedom and I can love you better and
the second thing is going to be is it's
going to not tell the other person what
they need to do it's going to be telling
them what you're going to do under
certain circumstances it's when you do X
I'm going to do y and the why isn't
going to be I am going to do something
that hurts you it's it is or I'm going
to do something that controls you it's I
am going to go and take care of myself
so when you're guilt tripping me I'm
going to leave I'll be back back in 20
minutes or if you're guilt tripping me
I'm going to leave and as soon as you
call me and tell me that we can have a
conversation without guilt I'm happy to
come back and so if you follow those two
rules it makes your heart open no matter
what their response is going to be and
this that's an important part is no
matter what their response is going to
be because what happens when you draw a
boundary is you go I'm going to draw
this boundary and you get scared of the
of the response because if you have to
draw a boundary as a new thing if it's a
new boundary that you're
drawing it's automatically true that
you do not feel okay drawing the
boundary you think that maybe you
shouldn't draw this boundary like maybe
you should just put up with it maybe you
should put up with the gaslighting maybe
you should put up with the guilt I can't
say no to my mom guilt tripping me I
can't say no to my mom criticizing I
can't say no to somebody yelling at me
and so you're going to if you're going
to draw the boundary you're going to get
really defensive you're going to be like
ready for the fight which invites the
fight like if I draw a boundary with you
and I'm like if you get angry at me I'm
going to
leave that is going to invite a fight
where it's like I'm not I don't want to
be with your anger so I'm happy to leave
when you get angry and I'm happy to come
back as soon as you're ready to have the
conversation without yelling at me so
it's going to be a whole
different interaction if you can draw it
with that open heart so it's really
critical that whatever boundary you draw
it opens your heart and that you're not
telling the other person what to do
because then you're in a control game
with them and instead you're saying this
is what I'm going to do because I have
agency I have my own empowerment and I
can do I'm free I can do the thing that
I want to do and so that's the critical
piece of the boundary as far as that
other piece that I think is really
important is that the boundary drawing
isn't really for the other
person it's for you so for instance
you're at a job
and you have to say to your boss like no
you don't yell at me but there's
somebody else that the boss never yells
at it's like what what's going on there
why is it that the thing that the boss
does to you they're not doing to
everybody it's because in that person's
mind it's very clear that like no I'm
not going to get yelled at by the boss
maybe the boss yelled at them one point
and said hey hey don't do that or maybe
the boss yelled him at one point and
they were like wow looks like you're
feeling way out of control on this one
and the boss was like oh but the boss is
yelling at you because there's something
in you that thinks that it's okay
because as soon as you know like oh I'm
not going to put up with that kind of
behavior then there's nothing in you
that has to like fight or defend and
it's less likely for that behavior to
come at you so the boundary is mostly
about you learning for yourself that
something's not okay and you're drawing
it
externally is learning that in a real
concrete way way is like learning how to
like fix an engine you need to get your
hands dirty learning how to draw
boundaries and what's actually the right
boundary for you you're going to have to
get your hands dirty and so it's really
important to see boundaries not really
even about them it's really all about
you learning what what works for you and
being okay saying like hey I am okay if
you need to pull your love away from me
because I'm going to take care of myself
then that that's what's going to need to
be the case and that opens up your life
to people who are ready to treat you in
the way that you actually want to be
treated
[Music]